# Abstract
One of the paradigms of fixed-wing flight is to go control-surfaceless. Traditionally, fixed-wing aircraft have used the deflection of control surfaces like ailerons, elevators, and rudders, to achieve control in forward flight. These control surfaces add redundant weight due to their complex hinge/hydraulic/servo-mechanisms, creating parasite drag through the discontinuities they create on the wing of a plane, and increasing manufacturing complexities. There have been numerous efforts to replace conventional control surfaces with more efficient alternatives, with an example being the morphing wing, where the entire wing changes shape to mimic the deflection of a control surface. Morphing wings reduce the parasitic drag during cruise flight by eliminating the need for cut-outs on the wing for control surfaces. Still, they add significant material, weight, and maintenance complexities. Another alternative for control-surfaceless flight is pneumatic blowing, where pressurized jets of air are blown from slits on the wing to achieve control. Such a system also adds weight complexities—the need for compressed air storage makes it impossible to be implemented on smaller-scale unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV).
	ViSA—Virtual Swashplate Aircraft, is our novel solution to the problem of control-surfaceless forward flight. Inspired by Paulos et al's (Paulos & Yim, 2015) work on swashplateless and underactuated UAV motor hinges, we devised an underactuated motor drive and propeller mechanism capable of 2D thrust vector control via motor speed modulation alone. The idea is to create a propeller hinge whose tip path plane changes angles in response to cyclic variations in motor speed and acceleration. We've verified the control authority of such a mechanism in sustained outdoor fixed-wing flight, paving the way for future micro and full-sized fixed-wing aircraft to achieve forward fixed-wing flight control without any control surfaces. In addition, since our motor speed-modulation scheme requires the connection of multiple sensors and high-speed peripherals which exceeds the computing power of most hobby-level controllers such as the STM32 and ESP32 families, we also developed a novel, cheap, fully operational parallel computing SMD printed-circuit board consisting of three ESP32 microcontrollers which perform flight-critical tasks such as multi-voltage power management, PID, Kalman filter, motor speed feedback/modulation, and SD logging, in tangent. Last but not least, we developed a special low-cost test stand for testing two-dimensional thrust output from our thrust-vectored propeller as well as a blade kinematics and aerodynamic model for predicting thrust-vectoring behavior based on different flight conditions and motor excitations. 
